---
layout: post
title:      "What I Learned Doing My First Candidate Homework"
date:       2018-07-07 14:58:48 +0000
---

I had made it past the first interview and was scheduled for the second. In the email with the confirmation was the link to the directions for the company’s candidate homework. At first I was thinking, “How am I going to do this in just a few days?” I guess I took my time on other projects before so this was a new concept. My major projects during my time at Flatiron School took me anywhere from a week to a month, so I definitely had a higher anxiety level seeing 3-4 days as the time-line. But as I read the requirements my mind started to envision what I needed to do and how I should start. Once that happened, I was programming like a crazy woman. As I worked through the different issues I came across, I was reminded why I wanted to go on this journey in the first place. It was frustrating one minute and exciting the next. Not any dull moments at all and challenging to solve the different problems. Especially those involving the use of Angular. Since I was just starting to learn Angular in the last few weeks, I was in a steep learning curve, but I wanted to do it because it is one of the frameworks this particular company uses. The best way to learn these things is to do them yourself and work your way through. I learned that I remembered a lot more than I thought I did and I was able to put together an Angular application that reads from an API and displays the information. I finished up the day after the interview and even had time to do the bonus that they included and incorporate Bootstrap with my own CSS as well. So now I know that I can roll out an app quickly if needed and work under pressure. This was a great experience and I ended up with another project for my portfolio.
